# 2.-Build-environment

## Structure

Files and directories available inside build environment:

* `./debs` - directory where built packages will be placed. Does not exist by default.
* `./disabled-packages` - directory with packages excluded from main build tree due to various reasons.
* `./ndk-patches` - directory with patches for Android NDK sysroot.
* `./packages` - directory where all packages \(scripts and patches\) are located.
* `./sample` - sample structure for creating new package.
* `./scripts` - internal parts of build system and some utility scripts.
* `./build-all.sh` - script for building all available packages.
* `./build-package.sh` - script for building one or more packages.
* `./clean.sh` - script for cleaning build environment.

## Setting up

### Docker container

Using official Docker image is a recommended way for building Termux packages which ensures that you have same environment as Termux maintainers and therefore builds are reproducible.

If you have Docker installed and running, then launching build environment should be as simple as running

```text
./scripts/run-docker.sh
```

Wait until latest image will be downloaded and then container's shell prompt should appear. The `termux-packages` folder will be mounted as `/home/builder/termux-packages`.

You may execute commands inside container without launching interactive shell by supplying them as arguments to `./scripts/run-docker.sh`. Example:

```text
./scripts/run-docker.sh ./build-package.sh libandroid-support
```

Sometimes Docker image should be updated. Following command will update image and delete outdated container:

```text
./scripts/update-docker.sh
```

#### Building own Docker image

`Dockerfile` is [located](https://github.com/andronixapp/termux-packages/blob/master/scripts/Dockerfile) in `./scripts/` directory and configured to build Ubuntu-based image.

To build the Docker image, execute following commands:

```text
cd ./scripts
docker build -t andronixapp/package-builder .
```

If you are getting error like `-bash: /tmp/setup-ubuntu.sh: Permission denied`, make sure that all `*.sh` files have permission `755` and `umask` is 0022.

#### Docker on Windows

For Windows users there is a PowerShell script available:

```text
.\scripts\run-docker.ps1
```

#### Tips

1. Multiple containers.

   You can have multiple containers running in parallel. Just set different container name as environment variable:

   ```text
   CONTAINER_NAME=termux_builder_2 ./scripts/run-docker.sh
   ```

2. Using unofficial Docker image.

   You can use a custom Docker image as environment variable `TERMUX_BUILDER_IMAGE_NAME`, but it also recommended to set a custom name for the container \(like above\):

   ```text
   export TERMUX_BUILDER_IMAGE_NAME=username/termux-custom-builder
   export CONTAINER_NAME=custom-builder1
   ./scripts/run-docker.sh
   ```

### VirtualBox VM

There is a [Vagrantfile](https://github.com/andronixapp/termux-packages/blob/master/scripts/Vagrantfile) for setting up a VirtualBox Ubuntu installation.

* Run `vagrant plugin install vagrant-disksize` to install disk size plugin for Vagrant.
* Run `cd scripts && vagrant up` to setup and launch the virtual machine.
* Run `vagrant ssh` to ssh into the virtual machine.

### Host OS

We have scripts that automate installation of packages used in build process. For now only Ubuntu and Arch Linux distributions are supported. Note that all scripts execute commands under `sudo`.

For Ubuntu:

```text
./scripts/setup-ubuntu.sh
```

For Arch Linux:

```text
./scripts/setup-archlinux.sh
```

Additionally you will need to install Android SDK and NDK. By default, it is expected that both SDK and NDK are installed into `$HOME/lib`, so it is recommended to use following script to properly setup them:

```text
./scripts/setup-android-sdk.sh
```

1. List item

## Important note

After properly setting up the building environment make sure that you these following things are properly setup.

* The `$TERMUX_ANDROID_HOME` should be set to `/data/data/studio.com.techriz.andronix/files/home`
* The `$TERMUX_PREFIX`should be set to `/data/data/studio.com.techriz.andronix/files/usr`

These environmental variable can be set with executing this script with `source env_build.sh`

> This script can also be used to import to set the variables essential for uploading the packages on Bintray \(this action is restricted to only maintainers for the official repository\). More info [here](https://github.com/imprakharshukla/termux-packages/wiki/4.-Andronix-maintainers#uploading-packages-bintray).

